hi guys I'm Laura Vitale and on this
episode of Laura in the kitchen I'm
going to show you how I make my clam
chowder it's been requested hear and
learn the kitchen quite a bit and I love
it and I think it tastes incredible in
the summer so I'm really excited to
share this recipe with you this is my
take on it and let me take you over the
ingredients so we can get started you're
going to some chopped onions celery it's
a thick cut bacon and a cutting little
pieces some chopped potatoes fresh corn
kernels all-purpose flour fresh thyme
you need to of course your clams and
just a few additional ingredients which
I'll go into as we proceed with the
recipe now the first thing I'll talk
about is the clams now my favorite kinds
of claims to use for clam chowder or any
kind of soup really these are cherry
stone claims they're really big they're
really needy and they provide incredible
flavor and texture to your soup you can
use other kinds of claim I absolutely
suggest you use cherry stone and they're
much less expensive than other kinds of
claims I happen to find in my you know
local grocery store or fish store so let
me tell you how I clean them I put my
claims in cold water for 30 minutes I
then drain them and with a little brush
like this you can find these at your
local supermarket i scrub scrub scrub
each and every one of them and then I
put them back into a clean bowl with
clean water let them soak again for 30
minutes drain them and put them in clean
water that's how I always have cleaned
my clams and I figured that's a good way
to go so what I'm going to do is
actually make our own clam juice because
there's no need to buy it if you can
make your own in this pot we're going to
heat it up over by high heat you're
going to add in some water I'm going to
wait for the water to come to a boil now
why buy clam juice when you can make
your very own from very young fresh
clams so once that comes to a boil I'll
show you the next step add my clams to
my boiling water
this is gonna provide so much good
flavor you'll see and now with clams
when you buy them they should all be
tightly closed if they're open don't buy
them they're not good and they should
not have like a fishy awful smell this
she really does not smell like anything
besides the sea um a few days ago I went
to the store and I want to get clams and
they smelled so bad that at the counter
I was I couldn't there's no way that I
could purchase them I mean they smell
like rotten sewage you got a bad clam if
it smells like - you just smell like the
sea so any who's then into the boiling
water
lid on for about seven to ten minutes or
until all the clams open up and after
they open up I'll show you the next step
and clams are open and I'm just taking
them out with a slotted spoon here look
at that gorgeous already now they're all
open set them aside to cool for a bit
and now over here what I've got is a
sieve as a fine sieve and I've lined it
with some paper towels you can line it
with cheesecloth you can line it with
coffee filters you can line them with
pretty much anything that you want I'm
using paper towels it works I'm going to
do is I want you to take this gorgeous
briny liquid here and I want you to pass
it through but I don't want you to take
the very very bottom because any sand
that comes out of the shells or of the
clams collects at the bottom of the pot
and you don't want to do that so what
I'm going to do is I'm just going to
strain this really nice and patiently
once your liquid has been strained you
want to set that aside as well take out
big pot you can use the same one or you
can use a nice heavy-duty pot which is
what I'm using I have it created over
medium heat into this I'm going to add
in my bacon no oil necessary it gives it
a lot of its own fat and I'm just going
to cook the bacon until it's nice and
crisp and in the meantime here's what
I'm going to do well speaking I am going
to take each piece of clam and take the
meat out I mean look at that
look at that
I'm going to take them all out and I'm
going to chop them into like bite-sized
pieces like that that's perfect time to
remove the bacon all that lovely
drippings are perfect now if you find
that your bacon renders out way too much
fat you're really looking forward to 2
to 3 tablespoons then drain some of it
but that as you can see it's not a whole
whole lot so I'm going to just use that
and saute my veggies now I think clam
chowder is the thing that some people
are passionate about making it a certain
way and that's it and that's fine that's
great but like all things in cooking you
know you tailor to what you like you
make things according to your taste this
happens to be the way I love clam
chowder it was really inspired by my
last trip to South Finn's in San
Francisco where it came in this gorgeous
big sourdough bread bowl which was
incredible I thought it was a little too
heavy so I'm not serving in a bread bowl
but you absolutely can but this was just
inspired by that trip if you don't like
corn in yours if you just think that
putting corn and clam chowder than oh
now then don't punch them in or you can
use canned clams you can do whatever you
want really this is just my take on a
clam chowder I'm doing to my veggies and
letting them cook for about 4 to 5
minutes or until they become nice and
soft you're not looking for them to
really develop a lot of color you're
just looking for them to coat the cook
down a little bit to that I'm going to
add in a little bit of flour and the
flour helps thicken the soup and again
with clam chowder it's a preference
thing so some people really like their
super thick some people like on the
little center side so if you like really
thick then add in a little bit more
flour or you add in a little less liquid
if you like a thinner added more liquid
it's completely up to you I'm just
adding it a little bit at a time so that
I can kind of cook it out so I don't
have that raw flour taste you know which
I really despise and cook that for about
30 seconds looks awesome
I'm going to add in our potatoes and I
just peeled and diced
and some fresh thyme I love fresh thyme
strip it right off the stem there the
leaves are so tender really really
lovely and my corn fresh corn kernels
right off the cob best and your clam
juice oh yes perfection now I'm going to
do is let this come to a boil and I'm
going to simmer it for about 25 minutes
or until the potatoes are tender and
then I'll show you the last final steps
right before we dig in now that your
potatoes are tender my soups been
simmering for about 25 minutes
and to this I'm going to add in my clams
a large chunks of clam a little heavy
cream don't look if you're on a diet get
on the treadmill for an extra hour
tomorrow but it'll be worth it you're
going to add in your bacon and you'll
crisped up earlier some parsley and you
need to season it with some salt and
pepper now you want to season it
according to taste I have tasted this
already as it was cooking so I know how
much it means just remember that the of
course the clam broth is already kind of
salty and briny and the bacon salty so
keep that in mind when you're seasoning
so what I'm going to do is I'm going to
give us a nice big stir and let this
cook for about five minutes I want the
claims to kind of warm up and then I'm
going to turn this off and it's going to
be time to serve and my chowder is done
look at that gorgeous gorgeous gorgeous
gorgeous now if you want to of course
you can serve this with some sourdough
bread or some crackers on top but this
is so good on its own it really doesn't
need anything to kind of company I need
a piece of clam though so this is going
to be muy caliente
right okay
aha very very good I will say this this
is probably the only way I'll make clam
chowder and I knew that the flavor of
the corn can be overpowering but I
personally love that sweetness against
the briny clams and if you want to try
your recipe a new recipe for I really
hope that you give this one a shot it's
easy it's delicious
it just highlights some of the best best
flavors of summer I think and in
moderation of course you can definitely
enjoy a bowl or two of this and if you
want to get the recipe goes wwr in the
kitchen calm I'm gonna go back to eating
this incredible and I'll see you next
time bye bye